Apache Local Host Server Install and  Start Up

Install
1. Naviagte to https://httpd.apache.org/, and under 'Apache httpd ' Latest Version Number'
Released (Latest Version number refers to the newest release of apache server. This should
be the second header on the page), click download

2. Under the first header ' Downloading the Apache HTTP Server, read through the documentation
until you read ' Apache httpd for Microsoft Windows is available from a number of 
third party vendors.

Clcik on 'third partie vendors'.

*Note. Apache server can be installed source code, however, we will use a third party
vendor which has packaged the necessary files for us in binary release so we do not need to
compile the server ourselves.

3. Once you have read through and clicked on the third party vendors, in the first header
'Downloading Apache for Windows', located the list of popular third party vendors for
deploying the apache server. 

Click on 'Apache Lounge'

4. Under Apache (Release Version) Binaries, click the zip file for the 32 or 64 bit
version depending on your computer specs, and begin the download.

5. Once the zip file ahs downlaoded, unzip the folder, and choose a desired location
(default 'downloads' folder is fine).

6. Double click the unzipped folder to see its contents. You should see two files and a 
folder called 'Apache 24'.

7. Right click the 'Apache24' folder and copy it to your 'C' drive. Double click the folder
to see its contents, and navigate to the htdocs folder, double click it. This is where we will
execute the server.

You are now ready to start up the server.


Start Up
1. Open command prompt by typing 'cmd' into the windows search bar.

2. Right click the application and choose 'run as administrator'. It will ask if this
application can make changes to your computer, click yes to continue.

3. Enter the following directy into command line:
	cd C:\Apache24\bin 
						*This this the directory where the '.exe' is located.
						*Note: if you installed Apache on your computer in a different
						location on your computer, edit the directory. C drive is default.

4. After completing step 3, the following should appear on the next command line:
	C:\Apache24\bin>
	
	Once you see the above, the type the following in the command line:
		httpd.exe
		
	The server should now be running. To double check, navigate to your browser, and enter
	the following:
	
	127.0.0.1
		This is the home page of your website, you should see "This works" at the top. 
		If not, restart the process and try again.
	
	Optionally, you can right click the index.html page that was created in your
	C:\Apache\htdocs folder directy on your computer.
		
*Note: Any html files that are created within the 'C:\Apache\htdocs folder directory
can be accessed in the browser by inserting '127.0.0.1' prior.
	Ex: If your home page was home.html:
		127.0.0.1/home.html
		
Note* If the created 'index.html' page that was originally is altered, then open using 
method above, using the right click option will open the page via a file path from your
computer and may give erros to access information on your webpage.

